docs: Rewriting pages about editors (#2552)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/end-user-guide/pages/url-parameter-for-the-ide.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
:description: URL parameter for the IDE
:keywords: ide, editor, workspace-ide, workspace-editor
:navtitle: URL parameter for the IDE
:page-aliases: url-parameter-for-the-in-browser-ide.adoc

[id="url-parameter-for-the-ide"]
= URL parameter for the IDE

> If the URL for starting a new workspace doesn't contain a parameter specifying the integrated development environment (IDE), then the workspace loads with the default IDE, Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source.

Reviewer: This entire sentence is redundant. Given that it's a module about a parameter that specifies something, it's not necessary to say that if you don't use the parameter, the default will happen. If you insist on making it super-clear, don't use a conditional. Just add a short note/sentence:

```suggestion
The default IDE for workspaces is Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source.
```

And then continue by introducing the parameter.

Author: Thanks. I went even further and removed the whole paragraph.

> If the URL for starting a new workspace doesn't contain a parameter specifying the integrated development environment (IDE), the workspace loads with the default IDE, which is Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the URL for starting a new workspace doesn't contain a parameter specifying the integrated development environment (IDE), the workspace loads with the default IDE: Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source.
```

Author: :) Thank you. I'll apply this, but with one small change: instead of the colon, I'll use a comma:

```suggestion
If the URL for starting a new workspace doesn't contain a parameter specifying the integrated development environment (IDE), the workspace loads with the default IDE, Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source.
```

> The URL parameter for specifying a supported IDE is `che-editor=`. You can use it to start a workspace with a clone of the same project repository and your choice of a supported IDE.

Reviewer 2: I'd shift the focus of the first sentence to what the user can do.

Author: Thank you. The reason it's phrased as a definition sentence is because this is a concept/reference module. I tried to avoid phrasing it as a procedure.

Reviewer: The fact that's it's a concept doesn't mean it needs to be hard to read :) Just say, for example:

```suggestion
You can use the `che-editor=` URL parameter to specify a supported IDE when starting a workspace.
```

> TIP: You can use the `che-editor=` parameter when you cannot add or edit a xref:defining-a-common-ide.adoc[`/.che/che-editor.yaml`] file in the source-code Git repository to be cloned for workspaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TIP: Use the `che-editor=` parameter when you cannot add or edit a xref:defining-a-common-ide.adoc[`/.che/che-editor.yaml`] file in the source-code Git repository to be cloned for workspaces.
```

Author: Thank you, but the action described in the tip is not really required in the given use case, so the user can, but does not have to, use this parameter in the given use case.

Reviewer: > the action described in the tip is not really required in the given use case, so the user can, but does not have to, use this parameter in the given use case

Which is perfectly clear from the fact that it's a TIP. Please, use the simpler formulation suggested by @deerskindoll.

> NOTE: If the source-code Git repository to be cloned for workspaces contains a xref:defining-a-common-ide.adoc[`/.che/che-editor.yaml`] file, then the `che-editor=` parameter overrides it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: If the source-code Git repository to be cloned for workspaces contains a xref:defining-a-common-ide.adoc[`/.che/che-editor.yaml`] file, the `che-editor=` parameter overrides it.
```

Author: Thank you. I usually add `then` in `if/then` sentences for better readability.

Reviewer: Using "then" in such sentences is redundant and does not improve readability. See IBM SG pg. 340:

**if ... then conjunction**

Avoid using "then" to introduce an independent clause that follows an "if" clause. For example, write "If you set a password, access is restricted", not "If you set a password, then access is restricted".

Use the "if ... then" construction only to clarify that a conditional relationship exists between two actions or events. For example, the "if ... then" construction can improve clarity when you are joining two long clauses.

..........................

Regardless of all of the above, the if clause is unjustified here and creates undesired complexity. There's no need for a conditional. Just state the fact:

```suggestion
NOTE: The `che-editor=` parameter overrides settings in the xref:defining-a-common-ide.adoc[`/.che/che-editor.yaml`] file.
```

This parameter accepts two types of values:

* `che-editor=__<editor_key>__`
+
[source,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}]#__<git_repository_url>__?che-editor=__<editor_key>__
----
+

.The URL parameter `__<editor_key>__` values for supported IDEs
[cols="1,1a,1a"]
|===
| IDE | `__<editor_key>__` value | Note

include::example$snip_{project-context}-table-of-supported-editors.adoc[]

|===

* `che-editor=__<url_to_a_file>__`
+
[source,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}]#__<git_repository_url>__?che-editor=__<url_to_a_file>__# <1>
----
<1> URL to a file with link:https://devfile.io/docs/2.2.0/what-is-a-devfile[devfile content].
+
[TIP]
====

* The URL must point to the raw file content.

> * To use this parameter with a xref:defining-a-common-ide.adoc[`che-editor.yaml`] file, copy the file with another name or path, and remove the line with `inline` from the file.

Reviewer 3: For a better visibility, we can add examples of our editors' Devfiles, like in Mario's blog [here](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2022/07/12/how-run-vs-code-openshift-dev-spaces#).
See a small chart in the chapter `Option 2: Using the URL parameter che-editor`:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1636395/222507422-38dcc4ec-8223-47bd-a32a-1e326c971236.png)

Author: Thank you, Artem. I will have a look at it and try to think how to include this in the docs.

Author: @azatsarynnyy, thank you again. I will incorporate this info in a separate issue so as not to delay merging this PR. I have opened [RHDEVDOCS-5053](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDEVDOCS-5053) and will work on it during the next sprint.
